# Setting up your integrated development environment (IDE)

Once you've installed the Poetry environment, you need to ensure your IDE is correctly
set up to run your project. Here, we discuss how to do this for VS Code and PyCharm.

## VS Code

[VS Code is a multi-language IDE that relies heavily on extensions for
functionality][vscode]. To run your project, you need to:

1. [install the required VS Code extensions](#required-vs-code-extensions)
2. enable GitHub integration with VS Code
3. [select the correct VS Code Python
   interpreter](#selecting-the-correct-vs-code-python-interpreter)
4. restart any open VS Code terminals to activate the Poetry environment

### Required VS Code extensions

[Here are a list of recommended extensions you should install][vscode-marketplace]:

- Python
- GitHub Pull Requests and Issues
- Python Docstring Generator

Once you've installed the GitHub Pull Requests and Issues extension, make sure you
sign in to GitHub and authenticate using your browser to enable GitHub integration.
This is step is needed to access private GitHub repositories on Google Compute Engine
(GCE) instances.

To access GCE instances, you should also install:

- Remote - SSH

You will need to reinstall these extensions on any GCE instance you access for the
first time. Go to the Extensions view, and click on the `Install in SSH: {SSH_NAME}`
button under each extension, where `{SSH_NAME}` is the name of your GCE instance.

### Selecting the correct VS Code Python interpreter

[Once you've installed the extensions, select the Python interpreter corresponding to
the Poetry environment][vscode-python-interpreter]. The Poetry environment name should
contain both the repository name, and `poetry` in it.

For example, if the Poetry environment was installed using Python 3.9.6, the name will
look like:

```text
Python 3.9.6 64-bit ('tripadvisor-hotel-reviews-topic-modeling-{ID}--py3.9': poetry)
```

where `{ID}` is an environment ID generated by Poetry when if first creates the
environment. Restart any open VS Code terminals to enable the environment in them.

## PyCharm

PyCharm is a Python-specific IDE, but can also handle different languages either
natively, or using plugins. To run your project, you need to:

1. [install the Poetry plugin](#required-pycharm-plugins)
2. [select the correct PyCharm Python interpreter](#selecting-the-correct-pycharm-python-interpreter)
3. restart any open PyCharm terminals to activate the Poetry environment

### Required PyCharm plugins

To use the installed Poetry environment, [install the Poetry plugin from the
Marketplace][pycharm-marketplace], and restart PyCharm when prompted.

### Selecting the correct PyCharm Python interpreter

Next, [add a Python interpreter; there should be an option to select
`Poetry Environment` as the environment type][pycharm-python-interpreter]. Select the
`Existing environment` radio button, and choose the correct Poetry environment name
from the drop-down menu. The Poetry environment name should contain both the repository
name, and `poetry` in it.

For example, if the Poetry environment was installed using Python 3.9.6, the name will
look like:

```text
Python 3.9.6 64-bit ('tripadvisor-hotel-reviews-topic-modeling-{ID}--py3.9': poetry)
```

where `{ID}` is an environment ID generated by Poetry when if first creates the
environment. Restart any open PyCharm terminals to enable the environment in them.

[pycharm]: https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm
[pycharm-marketplace]: https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/managing-plugins.html
[pycharm-python-interpreter]: https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/configuring-python-interpreter.html#add_new_project_interpreter
[vscode]: https://code.visualstudio.com
[vscode-marketplace]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/extension-marketplace
[vscode-python-interpreter]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/environments#_select-and-activate-an-environment
